# Report

## Quick introduce
The project creates production report Excel files, copies some data from one Excel file to another,
fills cells with color, and so on. This script has been implemented in the production plant and saves
about 2-3 man-hours for an office worker per day.

The script works with Excel input files that contain too sensitive information to be publicly
available, but in the folder 'test_data' you can find some demo versions of input files.
With them the script can be launched in testing / demonstration mode.

<details>
<summary><b>About the Excel files used by the script.</b></summary>

- '<u><i>E1_17.03.2023.xlsx</i></u>' - Daily report which is automatically generated by EBAWE 1 production 
line software. It contains <b>netto</b> areas of prefab elements.
- '<u><i>E2_17.03.2023.xlsx</i></u>' - Daily report which is automatically generated by EBAWE 2 production 
line software. It contains <b>netto</b> areas of prefab elements.
- '<u><i>Roczny_2023.xlsx</i></u>' - Yearly report which contains <b>brutto</b> areas of all prefab elements. 
Elements marked by yellow color mean the element was already made and headers marked by dark green color 
mean all elements in this project were made.
- '<u><i>Miesięczny_03.2023.xlsx</i></u>' - Monthly report which shows how many prefabs were made each day
from which project and which Project Manager is leading this project. Headers marked by yellow color 
mean the whole project is made.
- '<u><i>Daily_17.03.2023.xlsx</i></u>' - output files made by the script that merged data about which elements 
were made on a specific day from '<i>E1_17.03.2023.xlsx</i>' or '<i>E2_17.03.2023.xlsx</i>' report with 
their areas taken from the yearly report: '<i>Roczny_2023.xlsx</i>'
- '<u><i>Szablon.xlsx</i></u>' - template for daily report
</details>

<details>
<summary><b>Production and testing modes.</b></summary>

1. For <b>Testing / Demonstration</b> mode nothing needs to be changed. Output files will be saved in the
'<i>test_data</i>' folder with the suffix '<i>_test</i>' and can be compared with their input parents in 
the same folder. For demonstration purposes in the welcome message box need to type the date: 17.03.2023
and the number of the production line: 'EBAWE: 1' or 'EBAWE: 2'.
2. For <b>Production</b> mode need to adjust paths for input/output files in the '<i>.env</i>' file.
Additionally '<i>Report.py</i>' file has to be changed in one place at the bottom of the file 
marked by '<i># TODO: </i>' comment. Variable '<i>testing</i>' need to be changed from '<i>True</i>'.
to '<i>False</i>'
</details>

<details>
<summary><b>How to prepare and run the script?</b></summary>

1. Clone this project
2. You need to have installed Python 3 (script was developed on version 3.10)
3. Prepare environment and install requirements
- go to folder where you cloned project from repository
~~~Windows PowerShell
PS> cd "path_with_cloned_project"
~~~
- create virtual environment
~~~Windows PowerShell
PS> python -m venv venv
~~~
- activate it
~~~Windows PowerShell
PS> venv\Scripts\activate
~~~
- ensure you are using virtual environment by checking prefix (venv) in your console and
then install requirements
~~~Windows PowerShell
(venv) PS> python -m pip install -r requirements.txt
~~~
4. Run "<i>Report.py</i>" file.
5. Other python files '<i>(...).py</i>' shouldn't be launched directly.
</details>